#summary Nucleotide skews in coding regions are shaped by a trade-off inherent in the codon table


== use the processed data to reproduce the main results in the manuscript ==

This section allows you to use the processed data to reproduce the statistical tests, figures and supplementary figures except SupFigure 1.

  # download a zip file from [https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BwieX-ApVZM5T1Y3cFZOY3ptTFk/edit?usp=sharing here] and unzip it; a folder '5_skews2014_rawdata_and_Rscripts_for_www' will be created
  # launch your "R" application; if you don't have one, please download it from [http://www.r-project.org/ here]. Set the working directory to "/path/to/5_skews2014_rawdata_and_Rscripts_for_www".
  # copy and paste the contents of the R source code file : 'nucleotide_skews_2014.R' into your R program.

*NOTE:* a R library "ggplot2" is required to make the figures; please install it if you haven't done so.

== the random dataset used in Figure 3 and Sup Figure 7 ==

The random dataset was created using a PERL script, which can be downloaded from [https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BwieX-ApVZM5ekFweWxCZ0NnT1E/edit?usp=sharing here].

*NOTE:* a PERL library "List::Util" is required.

== the dataset used in Figure 4 ==

This dataset was created using an in-house JAVA program, which can be downloaded from [https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BwieX-ApVZM5TmpRNFZVeEp1bE0/edit?usp=sharing here]. 

*NOTE:*
  # It is a NetBeans 8 project. Unzip and load it to NetBeans, you can see the source codes.
  # a precompile jar file can be found in the 'dist/' subfolder. to run it, JAVA 1.7 is required.
  # this program uses a parallel library and it will be VERY memory-consuming, so please try not to run it on your laptop / desktop.